kgo: guides for workloads latency based autoscaling (#7048)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway-operator/guides/autoscaling-workloads/prometheus.md

and [prometheus-adapter](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/prometheus-adapter)
in order to use {{ site.base_gateway }} latency metrics to autoscale workloads
based on their metrics.

## Install Prometheus

{:.note}
> **Note:** You can reuse your current Prometheus setup and skip this step
> but please be aware that it needs to be able to scrape {{ site.kgo_product_name }}'s metrics
> (e.g. through [`ServiceMonitor`][service_monitor]) and note down the namespace
> in which it's deployed.

[service_monitor]: https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/release-0.53/Documentation/api.md#servicemonitor

1. Add `prometheus-community` helm charts:

   ```bash
   helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
   helm repo update
   ```

1. Install Prometheus via [`kube-prometheus-stack` helm chart](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack):

   ```bash
   helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n prometheus prometheus prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack
   ```

## Apply `ServiceMonitor` to scrape {{ site.kgo_product_name }}

> In order to make Prometheus scrape {{ site.kgo_product_name }}'s `/metrics` we'll need to add a `ServiceMonitor` which will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make Prometheus scrape {{ site.kgo_product_name }}'s `/metrics` we'll need to add a `ServiceMonitor` which will
```

make it do so.

This can be done by using the following manifest:

```yaml
echo '
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    release: prometheus
  name: gateway-operator
  namespace: kong-system
spec:
  endpoints:
  - port: https
    scheme: https
    path: /metrics
    bearerTokenFile: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
    tlsConfig:
      insecureSkipVerify: true
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      control-plane: controller-manager ' | kubectl apply -f -
```

After applying the above manifest you can check one of the metrics that's exposed by {{ site.kgo_product_name }}
to verify that the scrape config has been applied.

You should be able to access the UI using a port-forward like this:

```bash
kubectl port-forward service/prometheus-kube-prometheus-prometheus 9090:9090 -n prometheus
```

This can be verified by going to your Prometheus UI and querying e.g.:

```
up{service=~"kgo-gateway-operator-metrics-service"}
```

## Install `prometheus-adapter`

> In order to adapt metrics from Prometheus so that they can be used by Kubernetes we'll need an adapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make Prometheus metrics usable in Kubernetes, an adapter is needed.
```

This can be done by `prometheus-adapter`.

> 1. In order to deploy `prometheus-adapter` you'll need to decide what time series to expose so that Kubernetes can consume it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To deploy `prometheus-adapter` you'll need to decide what time series to expose so that Kubernetes can consume it.
```

Keep this running while we move on to next steps.

## Verify metrics are exposed in Kubernetes

When all is configured you should be able to see the metric you've configure in `prometheus-adapter` exposed via Kubernetes Custom Metrics API:

```bash
kubectl get --raw '/apis/custom.metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1/namespaces/default/services/echo/kong_upstream_latency_ms_30s_average' | jq
```

This should result in:

```json
{
  "kind": "MetricValueList",
  "apiVersion": "custom.metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1",
  "metadata": {},
  "items": [
    {
      "describedObject": {
        "kind": "Service",
        "namespace": "default",
        "name": "echo",
        "apiVersion": "/v1"
      },
      "metricName": "kong_upstream_latency_ms_30s_average",
      "timestamp": "2024-03-06T13:11:12Z",
      "value": "0",
      "selector": null
    }
  ]
}
```

## Use exposed metric in `HorizontalPodAutoscaler`

When the metric configured in `prometheus-adapter` is available through Kubernetes' Custom Metrics API
we can use it in `HorizontalPodAutoscaler` to autoscale our workload: specifically the `echo` `Service`.

This can be done by using the following manifest:

```yaml

> apiVersion: autoscaling/v2

Reviewer: `echo` is missing
